Introduction
============

There are currently around 7.000 languages spoken all over the world - but each
two weeks a language dies. In general we see a strong tendency to learn and use
only the major languages such as English, German, French, etc., especially in
electronic communication. This is partly caused by the lack of hardware (e.g.
keyboards) and software (for transliteration, text completion, etc.) for
lesser-used languages, which constrain the natural usage of people's own
language in many tasks. Our goal is to turn that process in exactly the other
direction: every successful technology can also be used to teach, revitalize
and therefore boost the use of regional languages. This technology should also
assist the renewal of local languages and cultures by allowing people to
actively teach, learn, extend, and spread their language in their community.
Our aim is to give people the ability to use their mother tongue in everyday
electronic communication, no matter where they are and whatever language they
speak.

The Poio project develops language technologies to support communication in
lesser-used and under-resourced languages on and with electronic devices.
Within the Poio project we develop text input services with text prediction and
transliteration for mobile devices and desktop users to allow conversation in
hundreds of languages between individuals and in online communities. Poio
started as a language revitalization project at the `Interdisciplinary Centre
for Social and Language Documentation <http://www.cidles.eu/>`_ in
Minde/Portugal, a non-profit organization dedicated to the documentation and
preservation of linguistic heritage.

